README.md, before:

# Homogenization of Isentropic Gas Equations

In this repository, you can find all the codes used in the paper 

> Homogenized Equations for Isentropic Gas in a Pipe with Periodically Varying Cross-Section

by Laila S. Busaleh and David I. Ketcheson.

The directories contain the following:

    - `Homogenized_Equations_Derivation_Mathematica`: A Mathematica notebook in which we derive the homogenized equations
    - `Pseudospectral_Code_Homogenized_System`: A pseudospectral solver for the homogenized equations
    - `RiemannSolver_IsentropicGas_Equations`: Code to set up and solve the variable-coefficient problem with PyClaw.

Use the following commands to run the simulations for the finite volume solution:

1. In the terminal we use this command to compile the Riemann Solver:
   ```
    cd RiemannSolver_IsentropicGas_Equations
    python3 -m numpy.f2py -c rp1_IsentropicGas_1d_capacity_function.f90 -m RS_variable_coeff
   ```

2. To generate the plots

   In the same directory open a Python session
   ```
   Ipython
   ```

   For piece-wise constant case:
   ```
   from IsentropicGas_1d_pwc import run_and_plot
   run_and_plot()
   ```
   For sinusoidal case:
   ```
   from IsentropicGas_1d_sin import run_and_plot
   run_and_plot()
   ```


To reproduce the homogenized system solution you can run the code included in Pseudospectral_Code_Homogenized_System .

Commit message:

Add long simulation time warning and instructions to README.

README.md, after:

# Homogenization of Isentropic Gas Equations

In this repository, you can find all the codes used in the paper 

> Homogenized Equations for Isentropic Gas in a Pipe with Periodically Varying Cross-Section

by Laila S. Busaleh and David I. Ketcheson.

The directories contain the following:

    - `Homogenized_Equations_Derivation_Mathematica`: A Mathematica notebook in which we derive the homogenized equations
    - `Pseudospectral_Code_Homogenized_System`: A pseudospectral solver for the homogenized equations
    - `RiemannSolver_IsentropicGas_Equations`: Code to set up and solve the variable-coefficient problem with PyClaw.

Use the following commands to run the simulations for the finite volume solution:

1. In the terminal we use this command to compile the Riemann Solver:
   ```
    cd RiemannSolver_IsentropicGas_Equations
    python3 -m numpy.f2py -c rp1_IsentropicGas_1d_capacity_function.f90 -m RS_variable_coeff
   ```

2. To generate the plots

   In the same directory open a Python session
   ```
   Ipython
   ```

   For piece-wise constant case:
   ```
   from IsentropicGas_1d_pwc import run_and_plot
   run_and_plot(mx=200000)
   ```
   This simulation may take several hours to run.
   You can set a smaller value of mx to run it faster, but be warned that the results
   will not agree with those in the paper as very high resolution is required to capture
   the effective dispersive behavior.
   This code can also be run in parallel using PETSc.

   For sinusoidal case:
   ```
   from IsentropicGas_1d_sin import run_and_plot
   run_and_plot(mx=1000000)
   ```
   This simulation may take several hours to run.
   You can set a smaller value of mx to run it faster, but be warned that the results
   will not agree with those in the paper as very high resolution is required to capture
   the effective dispersive behavior.
   This code can also be run in parallel using PETSc.



To reproduce the homogenized system solution you can run the code included in Pseudospectral_Code_Homogenized_System .
